Add post to call for testing of Cargo's -Z sparse-registry (#990)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2022-06-16-sparse-registry-testing.md

---
layout: post
title: "Cargo sparse-registry call for testing"
author: Arlo Siemsen
team: The Cargo Team <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/dev-tools#cargo>
---

The Cargo nightly [`sparse-registry`][sparse-registry] feature is ready for testing. The
feature causes Cargo to access the crates.io index over HTTP, rather than git. It can
provide a significant performance improvement, especially if the git index is
out-of-date or not yet cloned.

## Overview
To try it out, add the `-Z sparse-registry` flag on `nightly-2022-06-19` or newer build
of Cargo. For example, to update dependencies:

```
rustup update nightly
cargo +nightly -Z sparse-registry update
```

The feature can also be enabled by setting the environment variable

> `CARGO_UNSTABLE_SPARSE_REGISTRY=true`. Setting this variable will have no effect on stable

Reviewer: nit: I wonder if it's worth *only* mentioning this in the blog post as the way to opt-in. It just strikes me as the simpler of the two options.

Author: I think I like having both approaches. People familiar with nightly flags are used to them as `-Z` options.

I'm open to thoughts by others though.

The performance improvement for clients should be especially noticeable in CI
environments, where no local cache of the index exists.

On the server side, the HTTP protocol is much simpler to cache on a CDN, which improvies
scalability and reduces server load.

The Cargo team plans to eventually make this the default way to access crates.io
(though the git index will remain for compatibility with older versions of Cargo and
external tools). `Cargo.lock` files will continue to reference the existing crates.io
index on GitHub to avoid churn.

The `-Z sparse-registry` flag also enables alternative registries to be accessed over
HTTP. For more details, see the [tracking issue][tracking-issue].

## Thank you

This project has been in the works for over 2.5 years with collaboration from the crates.io,
infra, and Cargo teams.

@kornelski wrote the [sparse-index RFC][rfc] and initial performance
proof of concept. @jonhoo created the initial implementation in Cargo and gathered performance
data. @arlosi completed the implementation in Cargo and implemented the changes to crates.io
to serve the index. @eh2406 provided numerous reviews and feedback to get all the changes

> landed. Many others from the community helped by providing suggestions, feedback, and testing.

Reviewer: I know it's a bit awkward since you're essentially thanking yourself, but I'd encourage saying something like "Thank you to everyone involved!" at the end.

provide a significant performance improvement, especially if the git index is
out-of-date or not yet cloned.

## Overview
To try it out, add the `-Z sparse-registry` flag on `nightly-2022-06-20` or newer build
of Cargo. For example, to update dependencies:

```
rustup update nightly
cargo +nightly -Z sparse-registry update
```

The feature can also be enabled by setting the environment variable
`CARGO_UNSTABLE_SPARSE_REGISTRY=true`. Setting this variable will have no effect on stable
Cargo, making it easy to opt-in for CI jobs.

You can [leave feedback on the internals thread][internals].

If you see any issues [please report them on the Cargo repo][cargo]. The output of Cargo
with the environment variable `CARGO_LOG=cargo::sources::registry::http_remote=trace` set
will be helpful in debugging.

## Details

Accessing the index over HTTP allows crates.io to continue growing without hampering
performance. The current git index continues to grow as new crates are published,
and clients must download the entire index. The HTTP index only requires downloading
metadata for crates in your dependency tree. 

The performance improvement for clients should be especially noticeable in CI

> environments, where no local cache of the index exists.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
environments, particularly if no local cache of the index exists.
```
